---
title: "A short story working as a Process Engineer"
date: "2021-03-05"
---

After passing the board exam for Electronics Engineer, I am excited to work so I applied for different job postings.

Although ECE can work in different types of fields, I choose to apply in Semicon companies. And that's it! My career begins in **SFA Semicon**, a korean manufacturing company located in Clark, Pampanga. When I saw the company, I was mesmerized! The area is so wide, clean, with plants and landscapes and nipa huts. With the building in the center -- very big but not too tall so I can see the sky and clouds! It's very refreshing. I always wanted to work with this set-up. Anyways, I am a **Assembly Backend Process Engineer** specializing in **Mold** and **Marking** processes. The main products of SFA are flip chips, microSD and SD cards.

We have a shuttle near my apartment in Lakandula, Dau that arrives in the office at around 7:15am. The security when entering is strict, no slippers, no foods and colored drinks, bags should only be transparent and with max size, bags must undergo through baggage scanner, you must also pass through body scanner and all camera phones are covered with voidable stickers! Leaving the company is much more strict where you even remove socks in front of a guard. When arriving in the office I sit in my own cubicle, I read emails while drinking coffee. Oh and yes the company provides free Maxim coffees which can be mixed and drink only inside the company. We also wear ESD slippers inside the company (I can feel the korean culture with this ;) ) except in locker rooms and in the production line where we have bunny suits and booties. Also when entering the production line, we pass through the Air Shower and this is required everytime we go inside the prod but when leaving, it's not necessary.

Inside the prod, you can see and hear the busyness of a manufacturing company - different kinds of machines, many people in different uniform colors, Red Green Yellow light indicators, rooms for other equipment. Importantly, it is where you can make friends with many people hahaha operators, equipment engineers, line leaders ... they are there every time I go to prod. It's like I'm walking on a red carpet with reporters everywhere. I'll make a stop in every process I walk by to have a short chit-chat with them! I think this is one of the best things about working in a big company.

Well that's just a few for it. I want to share now the technicalities. Process Engineers are somewhat all around but the main works are

- new product evaluation
- process and output monitoring
- root cause and corrective action (RCCA)
- product verification

Products are not always in 100% good condition. We encounter issues everyday like no-marking, broken marking, double marking, incomplete mold, chip fly, exposed die, mold flash, and many more. Magazines of these are piling up in our rack so we need to verify these according to specifications every now and then. And when many PCBs are affected with the same issue, same machine, on consecutive magazines/lot, same machine... this is where we stop the machine and perform RCCA, working together with the EEs, find the cause, run the machine with dummy lots if needed, share solutions and finally create a report.

And lastly, when we have new products, new specifications, new designs, new recipes we perform new product evaluation. Some evaluations are isolated - in some specific processes only but mostly new products are full process. All assembly process engineers, from frontend to backend, work together to complete the Discussion of Evaluation (DOE) report. Well, this is by schedule. For example, the product is handled by Die Prep on first day then the products will then be passed to Die Attach on second day, then to Wire Bond on third, to Mold, to Marking, to Solder Ball Attach, to Saw/Sort, to Inkjet, then to PVI of visual inspection. The per process schedule may be followed or not depending on process output if found with issue. But the last day of the assembly schedule must be followed - if not, reports must be submitted to the Korean bosses and it's a pressure since they will be coming down to prod and check on these issues. Some koreans are terrifying by the way - they shout in the production line, thank God I did not encounter this but I'm shaking every time I get to talk to them in prod. HEHE. Sooooo, since the last day is strictly followed, there are times where we must work overtime to finish the product on our process. Some overtime extends us up to 8PM, 11PM, and worst 3AM in the morning. What's even problematic is that bus shuttles have only specific schedules. So when you miss the 6PM shuttle, you have to wait for the 8PM shuttle. Oh, and the last shuttle is 10PM. Next is 6AM already, unless you are prepared for the OT and have requested in advance to HR for special service.

So, where it went wrong? I think the pandemic is a big factor. The HR rules are too strict and of course there are no events - which I looked forward to when working in a semicon company, dinner out, Christmas party, sportsfest... I think this made me more tired aside from the consecutive OTs, seniors resigning, increasing product evaluations, restricted to company-apartment only, so yes I wasn't able to go home for a year and a half, and I forgot to mention we work on weekends. Yes, too much. Heh. We only have 5 days off per month. Honestly, salary isn't enough for the increasing workloads too. I wasn't happy anymore so I decided to learn Web Developing during my day offs, applied to IT companies and submitted my resignation. Me being a Process Engineer career ended on October 08, 2021. I am still grateful with the experiences I had for the 1year and 7 months working in SFA, I will surely miss some of these. :)
