---
title: "A change of heart to Web Developer"
date: "2021-10-11"
---

During my college days, we had coding courses. I always wanted to be good at it but unfortunately I really could not internalize it so I kinda excluded Software Engineer in my career options. I started my career as a Process Engineer but I had a change of heart. During my last few months in SFA, I started learning the basics of frontend development. Aha! **Frontend Developer** is the initial goal. Although I know that the frontend coding is different from the coding we had in college and the backend is closer to it, I'm still proud of me being able to code. It's still coding, right? And I believe it's somewhat a step closer to being a fullstack developer - frontend and backend as one. I still wanted to understand the coding like the coding from college so in bigger picture, I can still aim to become a **Fullstack Developer** in this career.

While I was learning the three basics of frontend developing - the **HTML**, **CSS**, and **Javascript** - I felt a growing passion for it. I am able to grasp the learnings and most importantly, I enjoyed each step of it. You may be wondering why frontend only? I love how I can see the code results on my screen - how I can control what things I can put on it and decide their positionings, playing the fonts and colors of words, making shapes move. Maybe this is also because I am creative and like to do D.I.Ys back then. I continued learning the other essentials in Web Developing such as frameworks (bootstrap, jquery, git) and tips for frontend developers. Until it came to a point that I wanted to apply this knowledge in real work. So, I applied to IT companies as Web Developer and surprisingly, I got a job in LH&Creatives, a japanese branding company in Makati. I was like - "OMG! This is it!". Aside from my dream of working in a semicon environment, I'm also a fan of citylights and I think working in Makati Central Business District is the best thing for someone who enjoys buildings and citylights (forgetting that it's dangerous when an earthquake comes hehe). The parent company is LionHeart located in Japan.

I wake up every 6:20am and leave the apartment at 7:15am. It's a walking distance to our office for about 35 minutes, some may think that it's not a walking distance anymore but hey! I am someone who enjoys the city vibes so it's okay for me to walk that long. I can also have morning exercise - by walking. Haha! In the office, I got my own table! When in SFA, I read emails first but here what I check first is my google calendar. It's where I can see the tasks assigned to me. The environment is so quiet and comfy, a cool wind from the air-conditioner , a full glass window in front view of my desk where I can enjoy watching raindrops on rainy days, a pantry where I can make my coffee, and few people in the office. I honestly had a culture shock because it's very contrary to my first job as a Process Engineer. Oh, the company also gives free lunch every 2nd and 4th Friday of the month! Yehey! :D

Remember when I said I wanted to apply what I learned into real work? It's an answered prayer. We are creating websites and definitely use HTML, CSS, javascript, and jquery here. And with a bonus! New techstacks to learn - scss, php, and wordpress. I was scared at first since I know that php is a backend language and I am not into backend programming. I tried learning it on my first days and I can't get the hang of it. Although it's hard, I am able to handle projects given to me! And as tasks keep coming, I somehow familiarize myself with the backend programming. Yes!!! Another step closer to full stack developer. We create static websites but I think the company is planning to expand to App Development which makes me more excited since I wanted to expand my skills as well with creating interactable applications. For now, as a web developer, below are the work we do:

- create a website from the mockups/designs from our Web designers
- maintain and revise existing websites according to clients' requests
- layout checking and functionality testing

Sometimes I don't have scheduled tasks so it's a free time for me expanding my knowledge as a Web Developer. I am learning new tech stacks - **React.js, Tailwind, Web3, Solidity, and Next.js** which my blog site uses. Up until now, I enjoy being a web developer and that is one important factor that keeps me going!
